>> Kevin Powell: All right, so
another more specific thing that
we wanna work on is our cards.
The hero, there's only one out of
the cards, there's multiple of those.
So we do need to think a little bit
about how we want to approach things.
Cuz if we take a look at the Figma design,
we could just make these cards that we see
cuz this is the part of the page we're at.
And we could tackle those and
do what we want with them.
We have different types of cards
that are all very similar.
But there's some differences, the font
size of the titles noticeably being
the one thing that actually switches
depending on the situation we're in.
So ideally, when we start tackling this,
we need to sort of be forward thinking
about like, how am I gonna treat those?
And there's different
options we could take.
I could say, you know what?
My card titles are different enough
between each one of them that I'm only
gonna use utility classes for the titles,
cuz it's just the easiest way.
I already have those utilities in place,
why bother worrying about anything else?
The other thing might be that you're
going to have different classes.
You can have a card title, one card title,
two card title freer, large, medium,
small, or whatever.
You could come up with
different modifiers or
different titles in different classes for
it if you want it as well.
Or I'm gonna suggest which is the third
way, which is how I like to work.
But again, any of those options
would be completely valid and
there is no issues with any of them.
We'll see more once we start builiding out
the other ones, the real benefit of them.
But I think, hopefully, even now
the benefit will show through, but
it will really hammer home once we
start bringing in those other ones.
But I'll say,
if you're stuck a little bit,
the one thing I always say is
start with the easy things.
If you're looking at this going, I'm not
sure what I'm gonna do with my titles, but
I know what I need the font sizes to be.
I know what I need border radiuses to be,
and all these other things,
the padding, do that first,
just get through that.
And then you might get some
ideas on the other parts.
Or at least you've made some forward
progress instead of just staring at
something for a while and
not seeing any changes.
So if I come and
take a look at the three cards here,
I'm not gonna worry about the titles for
now.
That's the hard part,
I don't wanna worry about the hard part.
I'm gonna continue doing
this in my components layer.
I see this, it's a reuable component,
more so than my hero, but
it's still a component
that I'm gonna be doing.
So while I'm in there,
I can come down outside
of the purple brace and .card on there.
I know I need padding, so
I can say padding: 1rem;.
Padding doesn't really show me much, so it
reminds me that I need a background-color.
So come in with the background-color.
In this case, I don't really
remember what the color is, but
I know I need it to be
lighter than that darker one.
So, again, the naming convention I used,
I have the different backgrounds in there
and then I just remember,
I probably had the main.
So the background light is probably
the one I want, and hit save and
I can see that that is the one.
I'm just gonna gonna do this so
we can see our code a bit better,
even if it looks a bit uglier.
Looking at it at this size, there we go.
So the light background-color comes in and
it's the same on all of the cards.
So that works out perfectly for us.
The other thing, they need
a border-radius, so border-radius.
In this case,
I think it was the middle-ish one.
So I'll try my --border-radius-2 and
take a look.
And I think that's the right one.
The problem is the images need a different
--border-radius-2 cuz they had
the big one on it.
I said that we'd run into a problem.
This isn't the problem that we'd run into,
we have another one that
will come up later on.
But I could say that any card that's in an
image, and this would be again, you go and
look at your Figma file.
And I can see that these cards have
this smaller border radius in here.
If I go look, these ones don't have any
images, so I don't have to worry about it.
But if I come and look at these ones, all
of these images that are coming in here as
well, they all need
the same border-radius.
So I can just assume based on that,
that every single one of my cards that
has an image will have a border-radius.
So this to me is the easier way than
creating another class that I have to
remember to put on all of my cards.
And this is that point where having
utility classes versus having classes,
regular classes like
we're creating right now.
Where I see the benefit of having a normal
class, I can throw a card on there and
it treats everything
that's going on there.
And it's just one thing
that I can repeat over and
over instead of having to remember,
my card needs something,
the image inside the card need something,
the title inside the card need something.
If I can just do one parent class and it
handles everything for me, that's awesome.
So border-radius would then
probably be --border-radius-1.
I'm actually wondering,
that looks really small, so
that might actually be the 3 and the 2.
That looks a little bit better, so
I think it was the 3 and the 2.
If ever you're doing your own
designs just really fast,
if you have two elements that are nested
and both of them have a border radius,
you do not want the border
radius to be the same.
Cuz if it is the same,
the one on the inside will look
like the border radius is bigger.
Not super obvious in this case, but
the one on the inside
should always be smaller.
There's a formula to figure it out,
but well, these utilities or
these custom properties work for
us, so we're good on that.
The text color is already taken
care of thanks to inheritance.
The font size here is fine.
So I'm just trying to
think really quickly.
I don't see anything else
that I would need to add.
If I forgot something,
we'll add it in a minute.
But I wanna talk now about those titles.
The two choices or
the three choices, as I said,
we could either have to use utility
classes, which feels like the easiest
solution because we have the utility
classes already in place.
The problem with using the utility
classes is, when you get to here,
you have to remember to use those
utility classes here, here, here,
four times the same ones.
Here, we have 12 cards, yeah, 12 cards.
You'd have to do the same utility
classes across all of those ones.
Then you're using the same
three ones over here.
If you add another card or
you switch out the content,
then you have to remember to
put those same ones again.
It's not the end of the world.
If that makes sense to you because we
already have those things in place,
by all means take that approach.
I think it's functional, it works.
It's just for me, when I start having
to repeat things, especially, again,
in vanilla HTML and
CSS like we're doing today.
The utility class is here, this is
when things start to fall apart for
me a little bit, and
I prefer taking different approaches.
We could come in here and say if it's
an h3, cuz I think in all of these cards,
it will be h3's.
But once again, I don't like attaching
styles directly to the semantic element.
Just because you might have cards later
on in the project where you change
the organization of the page.
And it shouldn't be an h3 anymore,
it should be an h4 or an h2.
So for that, I do say coming in
with another class here does work.
And we did the hero title, so I think it's
good to be consistent with a card title.
If you have a different class name or
anything there you'd wanna use, you can.
And if you don't mind using the semantic
tag, you could also select your h3's.
But just be really careful with that for
just the potential future
growth of the project.
If I do that, it does mean on all those
cards, let's just do a quick find.
Whoops, not, .card.
To find them all, I just remembered
coming here, I see the grid flow.
I use the grid flow because we created it,
it's a nice way to have
consistent spacing.
Do you really wanna do that
every time you have a card too?
So let's do the titles first, but
then we'll circle back around to that.
So on all three of these h3s,
I'm just gonna put my mouse there,
scroll down, Alt and click, and
probably Option on a Mac, I'm guessing.
And then the same thing here.
So my cursor is in the same
place in all three, and
I can just write it once, card-title.
So card-title on that one,
card-title on that h3 and
card-title down on that h3, except I
did it without the double underscore.
So just to be consistent again, we'll do
the double underscore on all of those.
What I'm gonna suggest is
gonna be a bit weird, but
it's gonna hammer home why I like
using custom properties a lot.
So for this,
let's start with the font size.
And as a starting place, or actually I'm
gonna do a var(--card-title-font-size).
If you prefer fs cuz it's
shorter by all means, font-size,
comma, and
I'm gonna give it a default value.
If I have a generic card,
what's my generic card going to look like?
And I have to make a decision on that.
I'm just gonna say that these ones over
here are my generic card and the other
ones are the modified versions, just
because this is the first one I'm doing.
So the font size of that is quite big,
I think that's my heading-regular.
We'll check that in a second.
My color of it is gonna be
a VAR A card title color, comma.
And that one's easy becaus
var(--card-title-color, ), and
that one is easy cuz
it's the --text-brand.
And what this is doing is, because
the card title font size doesn't exist,
it can't find that custom property.
Oops, I made a small mistake here.
I do need to wrap these in var and
it didn't do it for me.
It's gonna use these other custom
properties as the fallback.
So, yeah, these don't exist yet.
And so now when I come in,
and take a look at the card,
it's using those two fallbacks instead.
And let's just put this on multiple
lines cuz it might make it a bit more
easier to read.
And then we can do the same thing for
the color.
I'm not saying you need
to format it this way,
I just wanted to show all
the text on the screen at once.
So it's looking for
a card-title-font-size.
It can't find one, so
it goes to this fallback instead,
which gives it the bigger size.
And then it looks for
the color, can't find it,
uses this color as the fallback instead.
Sometimes, when we did our wrapper and we
did other things, I was taking a different
approach, where I was coming on the card
title and I was setting the defaults here.
So --card-title, let's just say orange or
whatever, don't do this.
Sometimes you'll wanna
do things like this,
where you sort of wanna
encapsulate the styles.
And you're just saying these are things
like levers that can be pulled and
changed when you're doing it for
modifier classes or for different reasons.
But if it's something that I wanna change
it on a large scale where I might wanna go
on the parent and change what all of these
values are, I wanna open that door up.
So let's just say on these cards,
I'm gonna do a quick example here.
This isn't gonna work, so
don't leave it in your code.
But I could come on my equal-columns now.
And I could say any cards
that are in my equal-columns,
I could just say that
the --card-title-font-size: 1rem.
And now all of those cards
that are in equal columns,
they're getting that font size on them.
And we could do the same with the color.
--Card-title-color: purple, and
we could change the color of them.
Because it's not gonna
use the fallback anymore,
it's gonna use the value that's over here.
So as we get into the second page,
this type of thing can be really useful.
Cuz we could say any card that's in this
parent can have these specific values for
the card title and for
other things along the way as well.
So we can set it all up like that and
it's gonna pay off, again,
a bit more work in the short-term.
But in the long-term, it becomes
a lot more adaptable and robust.
And at the same time,
I mentioned I put the grid flow on here.
You could definitely leave it here,
but it could be one of those
things where you want the flow to
change depending on the cards.
I don't think we necessarily
need to do it in this case.
But since we have all
the other classes on our card.
And because that would mean every time
we use our card we'd always have to use
the gridflow as well, it just seems
a little bit pointless for it to be there.
When I'm using utility, the idea is
because this card is gonna need it and
this card isn't gonna need it.
A little bit like our background-colors.
This section needs this background-color,
this section needs
a different background-color.
Because they're different, it makes sense
to be able to plug and play things.
If it's always the same
style every time and
you already have a parent class on there,
there's no reason not to just come on.
Do a display: grid; gap: var:
(--card-gap, 1rem);.
And I think our gap there might actually
wanna be smaller, I'm not sure.
Maybe the 1rem is okay, though.
And now we have a card that will be
able to be a little bit more robust.
We can change it depending on
the situation by having the --card-gap,
the background or, sorry, the title and
the colors changing on them.
Whereas the things that
we don't want changing,
the border radius is always the same,
the background colors always the same.
This is one of those situations,
too, where you might wanna say, hey,
you know what?
I'm gonna have different cards on
another page, maybe I'm gonna take
that same approach for the color, or
the same approach for the border radius.
So again, I have one card,
lots of shared properties.
But the more locally scoped properties
you do with fallbacks on them,
you're opening up more levers that can
be pulled just to have one reusable
component that can be tweaked and changed.
It really depends on the project.
I would actually leave it like this for
now cuz it's doing exactly
what I want it to.
And if I ever needed to
have more adjustments,
it's not that hard to jump into this and
then just do a few tweaks along the way.